# Capstone Project-1. EDA Hotel Booking

# **Objective:** 
We are given a data set for hotel booking from year 2015-2017. Our objective is to perform a detailed EDA and draw conclusions about the booking trends about the hotel and how factors affecting hotel booking and cancellation interact with each other.

# **EDA:**
1. Which are busiest months for hotel?
2. Which are the months when hotels make higher revenue?
3. Which type of hotel is preferred more?
4. Which room type is preferred more?
5. Which room type has higher average daily rate(adr)?
6. From which country is the highest number of booking received?
7. Guest from which country cancels the booking most number of times?
8. What is average stay for guests for both type of hotels?
9. Which agent has most number of bookings?
10. Which is the most comman channel for booking hotel?
11. Which channel brings in the better revenue generating deal for the hotels?
12. Which channel faces the highest number of booking cancellation?
13. How do Longer waiting period affects cancellation?
14. How do longer lead time affects cancellation?
15. How do not getting assigned the demanded room affects cancellation?
16. How do not getting assigned the demanded room affects average daily rate of hotel?
17. How do lenght of stay affects adr?
18. What is the impact of deposite policy on the cancellation?

# **Part 1: Hotel Booking Analysis**
1. Which type of hotel is preferred more?
2. Which Hotel type makes more revenue?
3. What is average stay for guests for both type of hotels?
4. Which room type is preferred more?
5. Which room type has higher average daily rate(adr)?
6. From which country is the highest number of booking received?
7. Guest from which country cancels the booking most number of times?
8. How do lenght of stay affects adr?
# **Part 2: Distribution Channel Analysis**
1. Which is the most comman channel for booking hotel?
2. Which channel faces the highest number of booking cancellation?
3. Which channel brings in the better revenue generating deal for the hotels?
4. Which agent has most number of bookings?

# **Part 3: Month wise Analysis**
1. Which are busiest months for hotel?
2. What is the booking trend around the year for the hotels?
3. What is the impact on ADR every month around the year?

# **Part 4: Factors affecting cancellation**
1. How do Longer waiting period affects cancellation?
2. How do longer lead time affects cancellation?
3. How do not getting assigned the demanded room affects cancellation?
4. How do not getting assigned the demanded room affects average daily rate of hotel?
5. What is the impact of deposite policy on the cancellation?

# ** Conclusion:**
1. Out of all the bookings made 60% of booking is made for city hotels and 40% of booking is made for resort hotel.
2. For longer stay Resort hotel is preferred and for shorter stay city hotel is preferred.
3. Revenue generated by city hotel is slightly higher than resort hotel.
4. Average stay for guest is less than 5 days for both the hotels. Where it is 3 days for city hotel and 4 days for resort hotel.
5. Most reserved room type is room type A.
6. Room type H and G have highest adr.
7. Highest number of bookings are from TA/TO.
8. 30% of bookings via TA/TO gets cancelled.
9. Agent No. 9 has most number of booking.
10. GDS distribution channel brings in better revenue generating deals for hotels.
11. Most number of bookings are from portugal.
12. Almost 56% of bookings from protugal gets cancelled.
13. July and August Are the busiest month of the year for hotels.
14. Hotels experiences a rise in adr from begining of the year and reaches its peak at august and then gradually decrease towards the end of the year.
15. lead time, Waiting time and not getting the same room as reserved as no significant impact on cancellation.
16. Not getting same room as reserved results into slight decrease in adr.
17. Hotel with Refundable deposit policy experience lesser percentage cancelation.
18. Longer stay resutl in lesser adr value.

# **Solution to Business Objective:**
1. Most of the cancellations are from portugal and the distribution channel used is TA/TO. Lead time, Waiting Period and not getting the same room as reserved have no significant effect on cancellations. And hotels with refundable deposit policy have less number of cancellation than the ones with non refundable deposit policy. Imposing a refundable deposit policy for all the guest from portugal can bring a change in cancellation rate.
2. TA/TO is most comman channel used for booking hotels however higher percentage of cancellation are also from TA/TO. Introducing a small cancellation fee can probably reduce the number of cancellation.
3. Distribution channel like GDS is not focused on for resort hotel where as it has worked well for city hotel. So resort hotels should improve there price point to cope up with the GDS fees and improve their list on GDS channel to get better deals.
4. Room type H and G have higher average daily rate. A good offer with better marketing stratergy, marketing Room type H and G can bring in more revenue.
5. Most number of guest tend to travel in july and august. A marketing campaign around this months, right price point and better add on services can bring in more guest and thus hotel can generate more revenue.
